[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Romania.
What do we know of this country?
In reality, very little.
However, we've become aware
of a culture impregnated
with surprising
traditions and histories.
We have in mind images of
haunted castles and vampires,
but we are far from the truth.
Here, there are
numerous oral traditions
that allude to
ancient civilizations,
as well as numerous
archaeological discoveries
that seek to cover them up.
To better understand the
myths of this country,
we will go off the
beaten track and meet
with often contested researches
and experts, some of whom
have dedicated their
entire lives to bring
to light these discoveries
and reestablish truths long
since hidden.
We will reveal
ancient sanctions,
mysterious treasures, and
unusual archaeological objects
that can bring into
question our entire history.
Have there been
previous civilizations
with a very advanced knowledge?
Could humans have cohabited
the Earth with giants?
Our research will take you to
out-of-the-way places where
myth and reality cross paths.
There is somewhere,
1,200 meters up--
that's 4,000 feet--
a century that
attests to the presence of
an ancient civilization,
the Dacians.
During the Roman occupation,
the Carpathian people
withdrew there to
make their last stand.
And what we have
discovered there
will shake up the
established truth.
Sarmizegetusa, known as
the Romanian Stonehenge,
is listed by UNESCO as
a World Heritage site.
Now in ruins, this
sanctuary was once
the ancient capital
of the Dacians,
one of the original
peoples of Romania.
This military
supply fortress was
comprised of five terraces
that extended to more
than 30,000 square meters.
Inside are contained living
accommodation, stables,
and storage facilities, all
served by a complex water
supply system.
The city temples did
not survive the wars.
Only fragments of undersides
rock proves their presence.
Archeological excavations attest
that the inhabitants enjoyed
a high standard of living.
Here the buildings benefited
from modern installations
a long time before the Romans
interfered with the Dacian
culture.
But Sarmizegetusa was much
more than a simple city.
The Dacians took their knowledge
from an influential priest,
Deceneus.
Initiated in Egypt to the same
degree as Thales, Pythagoras,
and Plato, some credit
him with the building
of the city during
the first century BCE.
Sarmizegetusa was also the site
of an astronomical observatory.
It is said that the
priests mastered cosmology
and established the
positions of the planets.
Their signs of the
stars governed decisions
relating to future wars,
the cultivation of the land,
and voyages to undertake.
>> The largest sanctum in the
citadel measures 30 meters,
98.5 feet, in diameter and is
composed of three concentric
circles.
This astronomical temple
doubled as a calendar,
reputed to have been one of the
most precise in all antiquity,
with a margin of error of one
hour, 15 minutes, and three
seconds per year.
Next to it, a circular
andesite flagstone
comprised of 10 spokes
acted as a solar dial
that allowed the Dacians
to predict the solstices
and equinoxes.
Historians know very
little about the Dacians
and attribute to them a very
limited degree of knowledge.
Many affirmed that they did
not possess the written word.
This polemic affirmation
divides many researchers.
According to some,
it is impossible
for a so-called
primitive civilization
to have knowledge of
stars and science.
However, one very
controversial discovery
attests that they were not
as archaic as history states.
Discovered in 1875 under
the reign of King Carol I,
the tablets of Sinaia suggest
that the Dacians did, in fact,
possess the written word.
500 of these tablets were found
at the end of the 19th century
during the construction
of the castle of Pelisor.
Originally fashioned
in gold, they
show three different
types of writing.
One resembles a form
of ancient Greek,
but the other two
remain unknown.
To get the gold,
King Carol had copies
of them made in lead before
melting down the originals.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> However, their authenticity
is quickly contested
by historians.
It is inconceivable
for them that they
could assemble three
different styles of writing.
More so, if we have not
discovered similar writings,
then they had simply
been invented.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The verdict is without doubt.
They cannot be authentic.
For historians, they
were just a joke.
The story could have
stopped right here,
but in the last few
years, a number of them
have disappeared, suddenly
re-igniting the controversy
surrounding their true nature.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Is the disappearance
of these tablets linked
to their containing a message
and mysterious inscriptions,
or maybe they showed that the
Dacians were not so primitive.
But what were they really?
In Romania, the Dacian
people speak a lot about it.
But according to
historians, it is as
though they came from nowhere.
To understand their origins,
we must go back to an era
where the Thracian territory
extended east to modern day
Germany and south
to the Caspian Sea.
Very little is known
of this civilization,
only that it was
divided into hundreds
of tribes of which
the most important was
the Dacians, known as the
Getae by the ancient Greeks
in modern day Romania.
The Greeks were the
first to document
the exploits of the Thracians.
The philosophical texts by the
likes of Herodotus and Plato
are full of praise for them.
Excellent horsemen and
remarkable combatants,
their temperament was a
veritable asset for the Greeks
during the siege of Troy.
They were also found at
Alexander the Great's side
during his campaigns
of conquest.
Far from the derogatory
cliches, the skill
of the Thracians
in gold and silver
demonstrates an undeniable
artistic refinement
and invokes an
accomplished civilization.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It is said that in
Thracian mythology,
Zeus was called Gebeleizis;
Artemis is enshrouded
in the traits of Bendis;
Sabazios became Dionysus,
just as Apollo originated as
Orpheus, god of mythology,
of the art of divination.
Each of the Greek and Roman
gods traces their origins
to the Thracian divinities.
The Greeks were inspired by
these people in their lifestyle
and their philosophy.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> But this civilization,
with its inestable resources,
was to be coveted by a Rome that
was being crushed by its debts.
After money wars, Rome came to
destabilize the Thracian nation
and conquer part
of its territory.
The last tribe to
resist the invasion
retreated to the Carpathian
Mountains of Dacia.
Tough and immovable,
their emblem
was the wolf, symbol
of intelligence,
liberty, and insubordination.
Associated with the snake,
it forms Dacian Draco
that would become renowned.
Seeing that they were a minority
in the face of the Romans,
the Dacians made no compromise.
They swore only to Zalmoxis,
a divine priest who
persuaded them that to
die on the battlefield led
to immortality, a
formidable belief which
undermined the Roman soldiers.
It is at Sarmizegetusa that they
delivered their final battle.
The citadel, the
ultimate resistance
to the Roman invasion,
sheltered Decebalus,
the last king and
general of the Dacians.
Despite the competitiveness
of his army,
they ceded in face of the power
of the Roman Emperor Trajan
and chose to die to accede
to Zalmoxis's paradise.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Despite being victorious,
Emperor Trajan honored
the Dacians in erecting
imposing statues in Rome.
They expressed force, bravery,
a startling sign of recognition
by a Roman emperor.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Being up to three meters--
nine foot, 10 inches--
tall, our attention
is drawn to the exceptional
scale of these statues, larger
than those erected in
memory of Roman warriors.
Naturally, the most
logical explanation
is that the Emperor
Trajan admired
the bravery of this nation.
However, a second
theory has come
to haunt the spirit of
more and more enthusiasts.
Is it conceivable that
somebody of these statues
were, in fact, life-size?
This idea that cross our
minds sounds foolhardy,
yet we are not the
only ones to think it.
Several discoveries show that
some of the Dacian warriors
could, indeed, have
been this size.
In Bucharest, the
Natural History Museum
harbors an exceptional treasure.
Delicate gold and
silver sculptures
confirm the mastery
of these materials
that this nation
possessed, certain jewelry
from Sarmizegetusa that almost
2,000 years later contain
treasures that have
never yet been excavated.
Among this decorative
jewelry, including
brooches and necklaces, I
found some stunning bracelets.
Their diameters vary between
nine and 13 centimeters,
3.5 to five inches, and
weighing anything from 700 grams
to more than a kilogram.
That's 24 to 35 ounces.
They're made of several loops
comprising of snakes' heads.
Cold forged from gold bars, they
demonstrate a complex and very
elaborate technicality.
Romanian archeology alleges
that these bracelets
were used for
rituals or reserved
for a certain elite of Dacians.
But for now, it's their
size that concerns.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> According to historians,
these bracelets were worn
by the highest-ranking Dacians,
and without wanting to play
with words, these highest
must have been very tall.
This partially broken
helmet has a diameter
of around 30
centimeters, 12 inches,
almost twice the size
of an ordinary head.
Specialists allege
that they were
worn on top of other helmets.
What is to be made of this
ceremonial breastplate
that no ordinary shoulders
would be able to wear
and whose length measures always
80 centimeters, 31.5 inches?
Just below, a ring with a
diameter of three centimeters,
that's more than an inch.
And it's the same
for this gold crown
of unequaled finesse, which
too has a very large diameter.
It would have belonged
to King Seuthes III
and came from his
tomb in Bulgaria.
Bizarrely, the remains of this
king have never been found.
Did giants once
walk these lands?
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> In 190 BCE in
modern-day Bulgaria,
Roman soldiers met
with something strange.
In front of them stood
a Thracian shepherd
who towered over them
by several head heights.
This colossus joined
the Roman garrison,
where he rose through the ranks
to become emperor in 235 AD.
Many think that this description
of Maximinus is exaggerated,
and unless one day we find his
skeleton his real size will
remain unknown.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> On the Sinaia tablets, one
engraving could confirm it.
It puts into evidence a
scene where men came face
to face with giants.
On their shield, a
significant symbol
indicates that they originated
from the legendary continent
of Hyperborea.
An ancient map by Gerardus
Mercator dated 1595
locates the original
country of the Hyperboreans
in the remote areas
of the North Pole.
According to ancient
texts, these lands
were not at that
time covered in ice.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Homer equally alleged that
the new Borea was situated
in Thracia and that the
Hyperborea was situated
in the north of Thracia, where
the Dacians used to live.
The Greek legends state
that the descendants
of Borea, the Boreats,
were giant kings,
measuring more than four
meters, 13 feet, in height.
If in those days, men of
gigantic dimensions existed,
we understand now why they
fascinated the Romans so much
and inspired the Emperor Trajan
to erect these famous statues.
Official history
does not mention
skeletons of large
dimensions that
would confirm this hypothesis.
However, other
anecdotal evidence
does draw attention to it.
It is not impossible that
certain archaeological
discoveries could have
willingly been ignored.
To understand more, we have
to go off the beaten track
to dig, look for
more clues, and go
against the tide
of perceived ideas.
In the southwest of
Bucharest, a discovery
passed almost unnoticed
that will undermine
our understanding of history.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> To the north of the village
of Popesti stands an ancient
fortress that appears to be
watched over by an Orthodox
church.
We're in Argedava, in the
heart of the ancient Dacian
city of King Burebista.
In 1926, archaeologists,
convinced
they had found the place where
the Thracian tribes unified,
made an unexpected discovery.
Here, Ionita Florea, an
80-year-old villager,
affirmed that he had dug
up a gigantic skeleton
when he was a teenager.
His parents used to tell him
that giants once lived there.
They were called
the [NON-ENGLISH]..
He confided in the pages
of a national newspaper
that he had participated
in these excavations
and reported the
discovery of 80 skeletons
unearthed between 1946 and 1954.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Today, this ancient citadel
still bears the stigmas
of these excavations.
At the summit of a hill,
there remain trenches that
contained the famous skeletons.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Is the presence of these
thorn bushes in the trenches
just a coincidence, or did
they put them there to hide
the excavations?
Have we found what we
are looking for here,
or have we discovered more
than we were hoping for?
Some places bear witness
to crude excavations.
Some ceramics from
the Dacian culture
are scattered on the ground.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It is while searching for
these ceramics that we made
a macabre discovery.
We wanted to know
more about these bones
and so asked at
the nearby church.
The priest who greeted
us said that he
didn't know that there were
human remains buried there.
He seemed annoyed, and
we were a little put
off by his indifference.
What heavy secret is
buried in Argedava?
Are there other
bodies buried there?
This ancient city though is
not the only place in Romania
where the discovery of giant
skeletons has been reported.
Other similar discoveries
have been documented
throughout the world.
In opening this
sensitive file, we
realize that there
are numerous witnesses
to these giant skeletons.
One of them led us south,
on the River Danube.
In the southwest
of Romania, close
to the border with
Serbia, a sculptor
alleges to have seen one
of these giant skeletons
with his own eyes.
He is called Nicolae Pascu Goya.
At the end of the
1960s, he accompanied
an archaeologist
said to have found
a passage under the
Danube and discovered
a village of disproportionate
dimensions there.
Now deceased, his
incredible testimony
was confided in
us by Uri Florio.
Six years ago, he worked
for a review magazine
on alternative subjects.
Intrigued by the
history of this old man,
he decided to meet him.
He won't easily forget
the 2nd of June, 2010.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The following images come
from the interview with Nicolae
Pascu Goya.
They were recorded
by Uri and his team
several years before the
death of the sculptor.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> According to the sculptor,
the layout of the tools
and the skeletons were
not insignificant.
All were perfectly
arranged insomuch
that they could be said
to have been exhibited.
Of course, it is
difficult to believe
in this story of giants.
Oral traditions are
abound with the existence
of a legendary people
of gigantic proportions.
We recall that it in the past,
in the province of Neamt,
giants occupied the
Ceahlau Mountains,
a sacred place that each year
attracts thousands of pilgrims.
In former times, the colossi
that inhabited these mountains
were the ancestors
of the Dacians.
These peaceful beings
measured 2.5 meters,
eight foot three inches,
and lived through breeding.
They were strong
and fair and had
knowledge qualified as magic
by the men of the valley.
However, one day
during a harsher winter
than normal, a strange
illness decimated them all.
The Ceahlau Mountains
are a holy place
and enclose the treasure
of the giant people.
It is said that only those
of a pure heart and soul,
exempt from sin, can
approach these riches.
Mount Ceahlau would
be the entrance
of the house of the gods
once used by the Dacians
to bring them closer
to their gods.
However, away from
the oral traditions,
Mount Ceahlau is a
place of devotion.
Each year on the morning of
August the 6th, 1,000 believers
start a pilgrimage
in order to take part
in an unusual phenomenon.
On the 46th morning after
the summer solstice,
the sun projects a shadow
of a perfect pyramid.
It is formed by the
union of shadows
of the peaks of
Panaghea and Toaca.
When the sun rises, it starts
by projecting the shadow
at the peak of Toaca,
then encompasses that
with the shadow of
the peak of Panaghea.
This fusion gives
rise to the hologram
of the pyramid of Ceahlau.
Somewhere within this area, the
shadow casts over the entrance
to a kingdom of
unimaginable riches.
The more that we dive into
the myth of this area,
the more we learn about
these giant people.
In the center of
Romania, a monastery
built on the side of a
small mountain shelters
the remains of one
of these colossi.
And there we saw the
giants, the sons of Anak,
which came of the
giants, and we were
in our own sight
as grasshoppers,
and so we were in their sight.
In the small community
of Corbii de Piatra,
a monastery arouses
interest in believers.
This assembly of partially dug
caves dates back to 1512 AD.
Their uncommon
layout seems to have
been inspired by 10th century
Byzantine church halls.
It is thought that
the two altars inside
would have served both
Catholic and orthodox services.
On the exterior, on the
side of the rock face,
there are intriguing
holes and huge cracks.
Close to the entrance
of the monastery,
an artificial cavity serves
as the priest's refectory.
At the far end, there's an
alveolus in the form of a bell.
This curious opening
appears to have
been dug in order that something
larger could be inserted.
A little further on, we
find a local curiosity.
The monks of the
monastery sometimes
like to lead tourists
on foot to something
that some believe to be the
petrified remains of a giant.
>> Imagine a village where
there's nothing else and this
monk sends you to a yard which
is kind of next door to a very
old, old house.
And behind the
house in the yard,
there is a sedimentary wall.
And in this wall,
you can see what
seems to be the perfectly
mummified body of a very
tall person.
It's laying face
down like it fell.
And the legend says it's a giant
that fell when the flood came.
You can tell exactly the foot,
the ankle, the entire hip area,
and then the torso.
The head of this thing
fell off the cliff
when the water washed away
this supposedly mummified body,
and it's in the grass.
>> For those who believe they
are seeing the relic of a true
giant, the attraction of
Corbii de Piatra appears like
a sculpture built into the rock.
Some see the remains
of a leg, for others
it is a work of nature.
However, these cavities
and holes in the wall
strengthen the idea that this
sculpture may not be natural.
At our feet, stones
that have broken away
have a very
evocative appearance.
>> The part of the petrified
giant that fell in the grass,
there's the skull, the
shape of a human head.
And it had eyes in the
orbits, and the eyes
came apart from
the skull as well.
And what's interesting
is that one of the eyes
has the shape of a--
I don't know, I would call it
an extraterrestrial being skull.
And you can see the elongated
eyes and it's really obvious.
Why would the eyes be
there, I don't know.
This is what the locals say.
The rest of the body, in my
opinion, is quite visible.
The proportions are exactly
like in the Egyptian statue.
I looked for
information because I
wanted to understand
when this flood happened,
if the giant is really
related to the flood.
>> Here the myth
returns once more.
A large number of cultures
allude to it and all
recount the same thing, whether
it be in the Middle East,
on the African continent,
in the European basin,
in Asia, or the
Indian continent.
All these cultures
relate a catastrophe
that devastated the planet
several thousand years
before our time.
The flood would have been an
extremely important turning
point in the
history of humanity.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Whether legend for some or
historical truth for others,
different races of giants are
mentioned before and after
the flood.
A lot of writings, particularly
those of the Old Testament,
argue that the sons of
God would be reunited
with the daughters of man
and that their children
would be the famous
giants mentioned
in great numbers in myths.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The Book of Enoch is a
work in the Old Testament that
the church has never recognized.
We learn in chapter seven that
these giants, the offspring
of women and the
gods, were called
the Nephilim, a
perverted species
with an insatiable
appetite that devoured
humans and all the creatures
of the animal kingdom.
Judging his impure
creation, God punished them
by invoking a flood
that destroyed all.
However, there were
some survivors.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The god of the Mesopotamian
legends and the myth
of Anunnaki.
We used to think that legends
were limited to the Babylonian
and Sumerian texts.
Here, in the heart of
the Carpathian Mountains,
we did not know that they
also spoke of this god.
Our research on the
gigantic skeletons
leads us to the Bucegi
Mountains, far from big towns,
halfway between
the small villages
of [INAUDIBLE] and [INAUDIBLE].
Here, no villager wanted
to reply to our questions
on camera.
The stories of the
discoveries of giant skeletons
appear to be taboo.
Is it to preserve
their reputation,
or would it be pressure exerted
by authorities who have scared
the villagers in the region?
However, everyone remembers
this discovery in 1965
made close to the
village of Scaieni.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Some think that these
giant skeletons are linked
to the legend of Luana, a
benevolent creature that would
have reigned over the region of
Buzau We recall that in ancient
times, it would have stalled
the mountains in order to make
an impenetrable fortress guarded
day and night by an artificial
sun.
Those that lived by its
side were strong and brave
and didn't fear death.
Luana did not only represent
the royal authority, but also
the religious and therapeutical
authorities of the region.
But according to
this local legend,
these origins could
have been linked
to the myth of the
Anunnakis, the star gods.
>> The founding legend is
about an extraterrestrial being
called Luana, who landed there
and who taught the people how
to live, how to
heal, what to eat.
Luana seems to have been an
extraterrestrial being that
broke a kind of
directive that did not
allow her species to
land on the Earth.
She came and she worked
with the people anyway.
And then the legend
says that her own kin
came to hunt her down and
there was some kind of a war.
>> The oral legend mentions
chariots of fire descending
on the region of Buzau that
would destroy the fortress
and Luana's artificial sun.
It speaks of a war that opposed
the gods, the repercussions
of which would still
be visible today.
>> But what we know is that
there is a mountain slope that
looks just like glass, and
it's visible in the area
of [INAUDIBLE].
We also know that in the
plateau of that region,
the rock is burned to a depth
of almost half a meter, which
says a lot about the temperature
that was generated there
at that point.
>> The believers think that
Luana was the offspring of Anu,
the supreme creator of all
the divinities in Mesopotamian
mythology.
Luana was sanctioned
by those of her race
for giving her help and
knowledge to humanity.
Her story recalls those
who opposed Enki and Enlil,
the Anunnaki gods.
To better understand
this myth, we must dive
into the Mesopotamian
poem, "Atra-Hasis."
This tale teaches us of the
existence of the Anunnaki gods
and their servants, the Igigi,
known also as the little gods.
Outraged by their
condition in life,
the Igigi rose up
against their masters.
In order to put down
the revolt, the god Enki
created man, the slave
to serve all the gods.
It was conceived in the
image of the Anunnakis
and born from clay mixed with
the blood of a sacrificed god.
It was the goddess Mami who was
charged with the fabrication
of this divine paste.
She needed it to make seven
masculine figurines and seven
feminine figurines.
Then a series of incantations
was sufficient to install life
into these Earth beings.
But before human beings
could see the light of day,
there would have been
several attempts.
Around Contesti, there
are strange stones
that according to
Romanian folklore
were the failed tests
of the Anunnaki gods
during the creation of man.
The oral tradition
reveals that these stones
were the work of these visitors
that came from the stars.
Situated 250 kilometers,
155 miles, west of Alunis,
these stones called the
trovants are considered
by many Romanians as
living organisms somewhere
between vegetable and mineral.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Geologists that the trovants
were formed by layers of sandy
sediments.
They would have been
compacted and sculpted
naturally by seismic activities
present in the region.
We're talking, therefore,
of paleo dynamics or paleo
seismology.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> In the course of a simulation
that recreated the sedimentary
conditions of the trovants,
researchers submitted
the specimens to
microseismic shocks.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The geologists'
experiments are conclusive,
but to obtain the trovants of
the dimensions of those that we
find at Contesti would
take millions of years.
The most ancient date back
to the late Cretaceous period
and the most recent to
the Quaternary period.
But an unknown phenomenon
pushes these stones
to grow like any organism.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Geologists reject the
idea that they can increase
in volume.
However, the possessors
of the stones
testify to measuring the
changes in their size, a tiny
and almost imperceptible
progression.
We're talking about millimeters,
fractions of an inch,
over several years.
Observing the stones
closer, we note
deterioration that hint of
the thickness of the shell.
They tell us of their antiquity.
The thickest shells
are the oldest.
Sometimes they can be up to 15
centimeters, six inches, thick.
The disposition and
placement of the stones
presumes that they were
used during ancient rituals.
But who would the
instigators be?
In the legend of
the trovants, we
learn that after the gods' first
failure in the creation of man,
the second test
was more fruitful.
It is thus the era of man began.
In the Mesopotamian
religion, just as in the case
of the Igigi, men
demanded their freedom.
It is then that Enki and Enlil
entered into a disagreement.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Is it conceivable that
Luana was one of the divinities
in the service of Enki?
There existed others
among them, offspring
of different mythologies
who brought their support
and knowledge to human beings.
For example, Viracocha
with the Incas,
Quetzalcoatl with the Aztecs,
Vishnu with the Indians,
and Prometheus with the Greeks.
All these cultures speak equally
of wars between the gods,
between those who wanted
to destroy humanity
and those who wanted
to protect it.
The myth of the giants
is also present there.
If the existence of giant
skeletons was acknowledged,
why then does it harm us so
much as to conceal them from us?
We could spend many hours
debating the subject,
and the hypotheses
will be very numerous.
It is evident that if one
or several other humanities
have preceded ours,
then some traces
must remain, discoveries
that we try to hide
and evidence whose importance
in nature we play down.
In the 1960s, a small village
situated in the center west
became renowned when a Romanian
archaeologist made a discovery
that would change everything.
In 1961, Nicolae Vlassa
conducted excavations
on an archaeological site on the
outskirts of the small village
of Tartaria.
He discovered an ancient
ceremonial site corresponding
to the Vinca culture.
The excavations uncovered
the bones of a human skeleton
that archaeologists believed to
be those of an ancient priest.
By his side, objects
were discovered
estimated between 7000 and 3000
BCE, including jewels, idols,
and artifacts.
But among all these objects,
three baked clay tablets
were found that
drew the attention
of the archaeologists.
On one of them can be seen
an animal with a corn,
but on the other two,
there are unknown
and carefully organized signs.
It highlights an ancient
writing that could
predate all those known today.
It was then that a foolish
decision befell the researchers
who worked on this discovery.
Under the pretext that the
ceramics were too soft,
they decided to solidify
them in an oven.
The result was irredeemable
and any chance to date
them is no longer possible.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Without dating, the story
of these tablets is classified
and they are labeled as a hoax.
It wasn't until 2003 that Harald
Haarmann, an eminent linguist,
and Marco Merlini, a
researcher specializing
in the study of science decided
to take the case to hand.
Haarmann, who had studied
Mesopotamian, Egyptian,
and Chinese writing,
came to the conclusion
that what was on the Tartaria
tablets was, indeed, writing.
Merlini attempted
to study them more
and banged on the doors
of Romanian archaeological
institutions, who bizarrely
refused to help him.
It was then that he
had an ingenious idea
of how to date the tablets.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The results of the
analysis are stunning.
The bones proved to be those
of a woman aged 55 years-old
at the time of her
death, and their date
was estimated at 7,500 years.
The verdict is enlightening,
Mesopotamia was not
the cradle of civilization.
An ancient culture
originating in the Balkans
flourished 2,000
years before Sumer,
contradicting the official
version of history.
This declaration provoked a
tidal wave of consternation
among historians, for whom
the Tartaria signs were simply
decorations.
This revelation quickly became
the subject of controversy,
because if official history
recognized their authenticity,
if you question the
origins of writing
and the origins of
other civilizations.
But the absence of a Rosetta
Stone means the Tartaria signs
cannot be decrypted.
As with the Sinaia
tablets, they lead
us to question the presence
of past civilizations
more advanced in knowledge
than historians recognize.
It is also the case for
the people of Cucuteni,
for which we have found
a multitude of ceramics
and more than 50,000 objects.
Those, as well as their
degree of knowledge,
does not correspond to those
of Neolithic civilizations.
The discovery of thousands
of archaeological objects,
of which 40,000 were
feminine statuettes,
highlights a matriarchal
culture that possessed a very
elevated standard of living.
The Cucuteni culture
was fascinated
by the finesse of ceramics
and pigments used in painting,
but also by storied
dwellings mounted on stilts.
What makes this
culture unique, though,
is their mastery of
ceramics and pigments
that even researchers today
would find hard to reproduce.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Researchers led by
Daniel Roxin have come
to the conclusion that the
Cucuteni culture could have had
commercial and cultural
exchanges with those
of the Yangshao.
This traditional Chinese
culture stretched from 4500
to 3000 BCE.
The similarities of its ceramics
and those at the Cucuteni
are undeniable.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> But the most incredible thing
is that we find on both these
Cucuteni objects and those
of the Yangshao culture some
symbols that are known
throughout the world.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The Cucuteni culture appeared
500 years before the Yangshao.
It is therefore logical to
think that it was the origin.
On the other hand,
a troubling detail
springs from certain artifacts.
Some statuettes possess small
balls inside their abdomens,
and some think that it could act
as a representation of the link
to an in-depth
knowledge of ovulation
in a woman, a
knowledge judged to be
unlikely for a
Neolithic civilization.
All these discoveries
highlight one
or several lost civilizations
of which ultimately we
know very little.
They appear to have enjoyed a
very high level of knowledge
for their time.
Although the
Turdas-Vinca culture
may be the most ancient
in central Europe,
there existed another in Romania
that could have come before.
On the outskirts of Alunis, in
the land of the divinity Luana,
a large number of troglodyte
caves can be found.
These cavities sculpted
in the mountain
serve as retreats for
hermits in the region.
Before the church
appropriated them,
it is believed that they
were used by Dacian priests
to whom their creation
is attributed.
In these troglodyte caves,
there are unknown writings
that would have been carved
more than 11,000 years ago.
But according to the locals,
the region where these are found
holds astonishing
curative properties.
>> We had the privilege to meet
a person that had been going
through these mountains and
discovering a lot of things.
And she told us
that it's amazing
how people can do 18 kilometers
tracks on the mountain.
And it's rocky, it's
not like the highway.
People who are overweight or not
physically fit or kind of old,
and they don't complain.
They can do it.
She said that sensations
of hunger and thirst
disappear and people have
an unexplained vitality.
>> Other stories enrich the
folklore of these mountains,
but they are more disturbing.
It is said that strange
phenomena occur,
such as brushes of light
in the sky and also
unexpected disappearances.
>> Now, the most interesting
part about [INAUDIBLE] is that
there have been reported
apparitions and disappearances.
People who went to
gather wood for fire
disappeared with a cart and
the horses just like that.
In the '80s, the
communist authorities
decided to put an
end to these stories
and they actually blew
up the entire place
where these appearances and
disappearances occurred.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The church has always played
the role of barrier of all
these unexplained phenomena
and their hidden treasures.
And it may not be a coincidence
if it keeps its secrets away
from laymen.
According to oral
traditions, these mountains
contain the biggest
deposit of amber in Europe,
as well as a legendary
city of gold.
They were an important
stage in the quest
of Jason and the Argonauts.
>> The legend says that
this was the golden city.
They speak about a
large quantity of gold
that might be here.
Interestingly enough,
related to the golden legend
of Jason and the Argonauts.
Plus, from the sea, if
you look at the legend,
they entered a big river which
might have been the Danube.
And from the place
where the Danube makes
a turn of 90 degrees
to the area of Buzau,
it's a very short way.
>> In Alunis, it is subterranean
tunnels that lead to the city
of gold.
A small church has been
built on the side of a hill
and guards the entrance
to one of these tunnels.
For a long time
inside here, there's
been an opening of
a passage that leads
to these secret labyrinths.
There are hundreds of
tunnels in these mountains.
Some have been
condemned to preserve
the safety of the villagers.
Disturbing events were
reported, but unfortunately
were neither myths nor legends.
>> The other interesting thing
is that when these mountains
were explored, a lot of
triangular tunnels were found.
And the tunnel is
completely equilateral
and is wide enough for a
person to crawl through it.
And a lot of people who
were looking for treasures
tried to get into these tunnels.
The stories are not quite nice.
Most of them went mad.
There is a documented one
in one of the villages.
There were two villagers.
One was staying at the
entrance of such a tunnel
and the other one went in.
And he came out yelling,
the dragon, the dragon.
He was pale white.
After that, because
of the shock,
he couldn't speak anymore.
Then within a few days, he died.
>> What did this treasure hunter
see that made him die like
this?
His story leaves us thinking
that these tunnels could
harbor some forms of life.
In the mountains of Bucegi,
the Ialomitei monastery
is also reputed to guard
the entrance to a tunnel.
Some myths allude that
leads towards the center
of the Earth.
The passage could
equally be the refuge
of a monster that would be
unfortunate to come across.
The church could have
constructed this monastery
to protect access to
it because for some, it
would be the entrance to hell.
>> It seems like these tunnels
were under mountain tunnels
connecting this area
with Transylvania,
and they've been found
everywhere in the Carpathians.
We don't know
exactly who was going
through these tunnels,
what was the purpose,
and who was the
incredible architect who
managed to build this network
of triangular tunnels.
>> The response may be
found with the Thracians.
Amongst the 100 tribes
who comprised this nation,
there was one people sense
apart from the others.
Those are the Agathyrsi.
This evocative names
seems strangely linked
to that of Agatha and the
legend of the hollow Earth
and it may not be a coincidence.
This nomadic tribe
from the steppes
lived in the
entrails of the Earth
and regularly wandered
these tunnels.
They alone knew the
paths and labyrinths
that connected the
regions between them
and also the countries.
The Agathyrsis were reputed to
color of their skin and hair
blue in order to honor
and look like their gods.
It is a peculiarity that
is found in other cultures
and certain divinities.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It is assumed that this
tradition comes from blue
blood, also known
as royal blood,
attributed to some
of these divinities.
In his enigmatic book, "The
Blue Mammoth," Luc Albeny
describes the king of
the underworld as a sort
of blue-furred pachyderm.
This fiction retraces
the adventures
of a hermit in the center of the
Earth and his strange meeting
with the mammoth people who
speak in the Basque language.
We wonder if behind this
story the author has not
used a metaphor
in order to reveal
the existence of
blue-skinned giants
who could have
interfered with man.
There are other
stories that relate
the existence of giants living
under the surface of the Earth.
In the Carpathians, under
the Sphinx of Mount Bucegi,
it is even said
that there exists
an immense underground cavity
that contains something
that some claim to be an
extraterrestrial base.
Each year, thousands
of tourists climb
to the summit of this
mountain in order
to admire the emblematic icon of
this region, its famous Sphinx.
Many see a similarity
with the one in Giza.
Opinions are divided.
Some think it is
the work of nature,
and others that it was
sculpted by the Dacians
in honor of the god Zalmoxis.
But extraordinary anecdotes
relate to paranormal events
in these mountains.
Here also there is the matter of
apparitions and disappearances.
They speak of a
vortex of energy,
of passages that lead
to other dimensions,
and also of sightings of UFOs.
Another myth is
reported in the work
"The Bucegi Discovery"
by Radu Cinamar.
The author proposed that
an artificial cavity
under the mountain
was discovered in 2003
by an American global
mapping satellite.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The book also mentions
the existence of three other
tunnels in the antechamber
that lead to Egypt, Tibet,
and towards the
center of the Earth.
It is unclear if the
reported facts in this story
are fictitious, but some think
that the work speaks the truth.
Of course, if all this
were to be proved,
it would be difficult
to hide the proof
and we would have found
traces or objects that
could have been left
behind by these visitors
from outer space.
We can leave it here,
move on to something else
without being submerged
with futile questions.
Sometimes the Earth
presents us with anomalies,
disturbing evidences that
sweep aside thousands of years
of history and certitude
in a matter of seconds,
undesirable and irrefutable
objects known as [NON-ENGLISH]..
These artifacts make scientific
institutions tremble and bring
everything into question.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> According to some theorists,
these anachronistic objects are
the proof that certain past
civilizations possessed a high
level of technology.
Others think that it is
proof of civilizations that
did not come from our world.
In the north of Romania,
one of these objects
is carefully conserved in
the Museum of Transylvania.
It is neither
highlighted nor exhibited
because its origin remains
an enigma for researchers.
The Aiud artifact is one of
these anachronistic objects.
It was discovered in
1973 a few kilometers
from the small village
that gives it its name,
in the dry bed of
the River Mures.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It wasn't until
1975 that ICPMMN,
and the Center for
Research [INAUDIBLE],,
conducted a metallographic
analysis and revealed
the composition of the artifact.
The results
intrigued scientists.
The object is constituted
of 88% aluminum,
but it also contains 6.2%
copper, 2.84% silicon,
and 8.81% percent
of zinc and lead.
There are also traces of other
metals in very small quantities
attributed to impurities.
How was this object imprisoned
in a sedimentary layer
next to an animal
that disappeared over
10,000 years ago?
But above all, when was it made?
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It was Alfred Wilm, a
German metallurgist researcher,
who in 1908 invented
Duralumin, an optimized version
of aluminum which gives
it a very high resistance.
Its light weight would make
aluminum a privileged metal
of interest in aviation.
Very soon, researchers
will issue a hypothesis
that the object could be a piece
from a Messerschmitt aircraft
from the Second World War.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> But that is not all.
The composition of
the Aiud artifact
is of no composition of
Duralumin known today.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Looking at this piece,
we note a significant layer
of oxidation.
According to
Romanian researchers,
given the circumstances
where it has been found,
it would take several centuries
or even several thousand years
to attain such a
level of oxidation.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> However, not all French
researchers we have met have
the same opinion.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> However, if, as some
Romanian specialists support,
the object has remained
isolated from humidity in its
sedimentary shell, then its
apparent oxidation leaves us
perplexed.
But let's summarize
what has been said.
The Aiud artifact was
found 10 meters, 33 feet,
deep in a layer
of petrified sand
containing the bones of
a prehistoric animal.
Its composition is a
derivative or Duralumin
that is unlike any
variant known today.
The object does not correspond
to any piece of a Messerschmitt
and no aircraft
crashed in the area.
Wait.
Is it another joke?
If we consider its
archaeological context,
it should therefore
have been dig a hole,
deposit it, and compress it
in a layer of sediment whilst
taking care to add
the fossilized bones
of an animal that had
disappeared 10,000 years ago.
We can better conceive
the incomprehension
of the researchers.
In the absence of
explanation, two hypotheses
have come forward.
The first is that the object
came from a humanity that
preceded us.
It would have been
industrialized
and possessed a technology
in advance of its time
and of all civilizations
of the past.
But it would have been developed
at least 10,000 years ago.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The second explanation put
forward by certain theorists is
that this object is not
of terrestrial origin,
but rather extraterrestrial.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> In 1983, the author Florin
Gheorghita offered a hypothesis
in his book that the Aiud
artifact could have been part
of the landing gear of an
extraterrestrial spaceship.
According to him,
the object would
have been the extension
of a structure ending
with three long feet.
Could the Aiud artifact have a
link with the legend of the god
Luana that came from the stars?
In the absence of
proof and of evidence,
imagining an
extraterrestrial origin
is no more foolish
than to glimpse
the existence of ancient
civilizations equipped
with technology.
For the skeptics,
these two hypotheses
are of course not acceptable.
Neolithic man did not
know about aluminum,
and it is impossible for
visitors from outer space
to be the origin of this object.
Besides, if such visitors
existed, we would be informed.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> If all of this was
only pure fantasy,
if all the previously mentioned
discoveries are false,
why still persist in
discrediting them today?
Why minimalize the
intellect of the Dacians?
Why malign the Sinaia
tablets and reject
the hypothesis of another
date concerning the Tartaria
tablets?
Why denigrate the knowledge
of the Cucuteni culture?
And why reject the
evidence that could
prove to be one of the biggest
discoveries of all time?
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> And we have proof with
the Cucuteni and the Yangshao
civilizations and also with
certain edifications that have
been found around the world
a common knowledge that some
civilizations have
had on all continents.
But there also exists within
a large number of cultures
a detail that suggests
that all these people had
a common reference.
We note it in a
number of ceramics
and in multiple representations.
And what if it was the
beginning of an answer?
We speak of a strange
and evocative face
that will be the distinctive
symbol of the past divinities,
a strong symbol, witness
of a powerful authority
and known on all the
continents of the planet.
All these faces evoking
the owl have beady eyes
and pronounced eyebrows.
These traits are also
a significant aspect
of the Mesopotamian idols.
We believe all these
faces, these divinities
could have had a great
influence on all cultures.
Everything we have is in the
writings, the ancient texts
and tablets thousands of years
old, subject to interpretation
and reinterpretation.
But in the light of
what they reveal to us,
we are forced to recognize that
these past civilizations were
remarkably imaginative.
If, as the ancient writings say,
giants once trod on our planet,
we understand the
interest highly placed
institutions have in hiding
all these discoveries.
>> And actually, this is one
of the issues here because we
don't have enough
archaeological research.
And the authorities should be
helped to get European funds
and find out some
more about what
they have in their backyard.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> So to bring all the
information to light,
it is beholden of each
of us to believe--
or not-- everything that has
been mentioned for yourselves
to follow or contest the
results of these discoveries.
Because here in Romania
a long time ago,
divinities may have
trodden these lands,
this other land of the gods.
We are living in
a time of change,
one where our spirits will
be free from the obstruction
of established dogmas and lies.
Many ignore it, but
a battle is taking
place right now even as we
speak, a showdown between light
and darkness, of
knowledge and ignorance.
Because knowledge
will set you free,
the fallout from
this bitter struggle
could change forever
the course of our lives
and lead us towards a greater
understanding of our universe
and maybe our origins.
[MUSIC PLAYING]